what is up guys karma medic here and
believe it or not I'm back with another
dose I'm currently in the apartment that
I'm staying in for two months while I do
research in Toronto it isn't as cool as
the one back in the UK and you're also
missing the orange dog but anyways today
I want to talk about the UK cat and more
specifically abstract reasoning so a lot
of you have been requesting a video like
this where I sort of dive deeper into a
specific section of the UK cat so thank
you guys for being vocal about that what
I'm gonna do is talk about the abstract
reasoning section a little bit give it a
little bit more detail into the tips
that I would advise for abstract
reasoning and then I'm gonna try and
solve a couple of questions on camera
and record my thought process as I do
that so you guys can see what I'm
thinking while I'm looking at the
question so without out the way let's
jump into a couple of tips about the
abstract reasoning section when you
first start looking at abstract
reasoning questions everything is gonna
seem like gibberish
you really shouldn't rush or try to jump
to the answer and solve the question as
quickly as you can you want to look at
the question and stare at the pattern
for as long as it takes until you figure
it out by yourself one by one go through
all the possible combinations and
eliminations of patterns that you can
think of and I know that could take a
lot of time it can be very frustrating
at first but as you see more questions
and as time passes this becomes a lot
easier and like I mentioned in one of my
previous videos the scans method s C a
and s is really useful and it can help
you have a list of things that you can
go through to check for what the pattern
could be the second thing I want to say
is with abstract reasoning you just
really need a lot of exposure you want
to expose yourself to as many questions
as possible because the more questions
you see the more likely you'll recognize
a pattern that is similar to something
that you've seen before and that can
really help speed things up on test day
where you need to decipher the pattern
in about 30 seconds it's impossible in
30 seconds to go through scans fully
step-by-step you know you're gonna think
this and stands for shape let me see
what are the shapes in this pattern
squares rectangles triangles whatever
okay let's move on to C color is it gray
is it black is it blue you just don't
have time for that kind of thing what
ends up happening after you've done
enough questions is that you parallel li
you in parallel go through all of the
different components of scan at the same
time intuitively and naturally once
you've done enough questions I deal with
scans is that it gives you a list of
things that could be patterns and once
you've looked at that list long enough
so many different patterns you'll
eventually be able to match them really
quickly now full disclosure I haven't
done any UK cap questions since 2016
when I took the exam so I'm a little bit
nervous that I'm gonna be doing these on
camera and it might take me a little bit
longer than the normal but and the
important thing is the way that I'm
gonna talk about my thought process what
I did to find the pattern I encourage
you to pause the video take a look at
the pattern and see if you can figure
out yourself I'm gonna switch over to my
laptop now and I'm gonna have my face up
in the corner and hopefully you can see
both at the same time and that'll help
me talk you guys through the question as
I do it so I have this word document
where I've screenshotted all the
abstract views and questions from one of
the online official UK past papers I've
put them all in a row here as you can
see and yeah I'm just gonna go through
them one by one and talk to you about
what I was thinking while I was solving
them and how I write that thinking at
that conclusion alright guys so let's
get started for this one I found this
one quite easy and it came to me very
quickly because there there really
aren't a lot of shapes taken to account
think about here so in set a and set B
we can see for shapes in each box and
there very clearly laid out in the in
the corners one of the first things here
I would test is whether a certain shape
appears in a certain area so maybe here
in the circle it's always in the top
half here it's in the bottom half okay
so I know that's not a rule maybe this
cross is always on the right but here
it's on the left so that's probably also
not a rule and then when I just took a
little bit of a step back what came to
me really quickly was that there's an
arrow pointing up in the top right
corner here and so I'm like okay that's
very consistent here let's look at set B
there must be something else that's
consistent in one corner so if you look
at take a step back and set B you can
see that there's a triangle and every
bottom right corner set B so usually if
you find a rule that's like this easy in
this quick it might be the case that
there is another rule hidden somewhere
in there but with just one of the rules
you're almost always going to score
three out of the five questions and for
a section like this where you're really
crunched for time I generally just take
the first rule that I find if it works
and it's consistent and I go with it if
I happen to see another rule then that's
great and I'll use it but if I can only
find one then I just find the rule and I
move on because I want to save that time
for maybe some of the harder questions I
need to think about a little bit longer
okay and let's move on to this next one
um let's see okay so this pattern just
took me a really really long time but I
mean let me try and talk you guys
through it so in set a the first thing
that I realized or the first thing that
I looked at was this box here and you
can see that there's three squares and
three ovals so I'm like okay cool
there's an equal number of squares as
ovals but then I look here and I'm like
okay fine my pattern works that's cool
and I look here and I realize there's
two ovals to one square so that doesn't
really make sense then I look at another
box and there's four squares to four
ovals so I'm thinking okay my pattern is
probably correct but there must be
something else that I am missing to make
something like this box over here work
so this was actually really tricky one
square one black square excuse me counts
as two ovals so in this case you have
two ovals sorry a black square it counts
as two squares so in this case you have
two ovals and two squares in theory
right that's how you arrive at equal
numbers of squares and ovals here
actually on top of that a great oval
counts as two ovals so here in this box
where you have actually is three squares
and three ovals now this is definitely
one of the hundreds that I would
consider it to be a lot more complicated
and if you don't get it I think that's
totally fine there are always gonna be
patterns that are extremely difficult
and you just sort of have to move on you
have to take your guess take your losses
and move on and for me definitely this
is one of those patterns now the
important thing is that you will have
realized that there's an equal number of
squares and ovals here through that
assumption you're probably gonna get two
out of the five questions right and
that's good because at least you save
yourself on some of these questions that
you would otherwise get zero okay this
pattern was super super tricky let's
look at Saturday first so immediately
when I look I said hey you realize
there's a triangle excuse me an arrow
and there's two triangles on the left
hand right so the first thing I was
trying to decipher was does the arrows
Direction mean anything arrow pointing
in what direction to me seemed kind of
quite random because you had this
pointing in opposite direction to that
you had up-down left-right all kinds of
different pointing so I eliminated that
the arrows pointing was something
meaningful
now what did change which is important
is that the base of the hour
has a rectangle where the head of the
arrow has a rectangle first thing I
tried to do was match this base sorry
this rectangle with one of the triangles
and you'll notice that one of the
rectangles is always the same color as
one of the triangles what you end up
realizing is that if the rectangle is on
the base of the arrow then the triangle
on the right is the same color if the
rectangle is on the head of the arrow
then the triangle on the left is the
same color okay guys so for this pattern
the first thing that you'll realize is
that there's an overwhelming number of
shapes color is clearly not important
because everything is white so what I
immediately start looking at is number
so the first thing I do is count see if
there's a difference in odd forces even
so if are all the boxes in set a either
odd or even total number of shapes so
one two three four five one two three
four five six
okay I can eliminate that pattern the
next thing I look at is either an odd or
even number of a specific shape so here
there's two circles and here there's
three so it's not only order only even I
do the same thing for squares they're
even even odd and triangles odd odd even
so I've eliminated that as one of the
potential patterns now when you start to
think is relative to each other what are
the numbers so I'm always gonna look at
the easiest box first and I see that
there's two squares to circles on the
triangle so immediately I'm like okay
there's the same number of squares of
circles so let me test that theory I
come here and I see two squares and
three circles that theory is eliminated
I go back to my simple box and I say
there's one triangle two squares and two
circles so there's one more Square on
circle than triangles so I come to the
next books and I test that one triangle
so I'm looking for two squares or two
circles but here I realize that there's
three circles so that means the circle
one is out of the question but my two
but my one more square than triangle
still works here there's two squares one
triangle two squares one triangle here
four squares three triangles so I'm like
okay this problem works once I've tested
a pattern and it works in three boxes
generally I'm like okay my pattern is
good and I can I can set that as a rule
so now once at a now that I know that
there's one more square than triangles I
know that there's gonna be something
similar in set B because set aids that B
are always somehow related
the patterns always give me something
similar or like opposite so I go to set
B and I'm looking for shapes relative to
each other that there's one more or one
less off okay
so let's look at the simplest box three
circles one square one triangle so I can
see that there's two more circles and
squares or triangles sets s not in
another box here there's four circles
and there's two squares and one triangle
so still there's two more circles than
squares in this box
triangles that doesn't seem to be the
case let's try third box one two three
circles and one square so now I can
determine and set B that there's always
two more circles than squares but the
basic premise is not you start off with
one rule you test it if it doesn't work
you move on you put in another rule and
you just keep going like that one by one
until you get to your solution so let's
start with set a if you quickly all you
can see is a bunch of lines and a bunch
of breaks in those lines so the first
thing I would do is start counting the
lines to see if there's an odd versus
even rule so here we have one two three
one two three four okay so I know that
set a isn't only on or only even after
that I'm gonna start looking at the
breaks
one two one two three one two one two
one two three so there's both or none
even so I know that the odd person even
thing isn't gonna work either so now I
start looking at intersections where did
the lines overlap so here we have one
one two three one two three one two
three one two three
so all the ones in set a appeared to be
odd let's look at set B now once I have
that rule and say hey I know that it
said B there's something very similar or
something opposite right and I'm
expecting and said be the old
intersections are going to be even so
let's see here we have no intersections
here we have one two three four five Oh
looks like my rule doesn't work let's go
back and say hey and try that again so
I'm gonna look at all the dashes and I
see one two three one two one two three
one two one two three one two so I'm
thinking okay maybe set a has two or
three dashes set B 1 2 3 4 1 1 2 3 4 1 1
1 2 3 4 so now I have a new rule set a
has either two or three dashes and set B
has either one or four dashes so you see
how you think you can have a rule down
really really well and then it turns out
it's wrong but that's okay if you test a
rule and it doesn't work just forget
about it maybe
bounine of that rule is important
somewhere else but for the most part
personally I just forget about it and I
try and find a new rule
so yeah there we go okay now this one I
found pretty difficult where should I
start okay so when I first looked at
this I was just overwhelmed with a bunch
of boxes a bunch of different colors and
I started testing rules so the first
thing I tested didn't say a was the
total number of boxes okay so I'll start
really quick three six seven eight three
six seven eight nine so I immediately
know there's an uneven so I'm gonna
forget about the odd versus even rule if
you haven't noticed that's one of the
first things I tend to test and the
second thing I do is I look at the
colors so we have black we have striped
and we have white so white we have one
two three one two three
Oh interesting one two three one two
three four five still odd one two three
four five one two three four five six
seven eight nine okay cool all the white
boxes are odd and that might be useful
if we look at black one two three one
two three four eliminate that right
there
striped one two three four one two three
four one two three I can eliminate that
right there now if you're going to test
that pattern you'll realize that it
doesn't work so I'm gonna save us the
time of going through that and I'm gonna
move on to the next thing that I tested
which is there isn't really much left to
do here I was trying to look at the
pattern from like a bird's eye view from
far away trying to see if there's
anything that would it lose today maybe
there's more black shapes on the top
half of the square or maybe there's more
white on the right or on the left but
none of that was kind of working out so
then the next thing I moved onto is
what's next to each other so here we
have stripe blank blank stripe so
there's two blacks thanks to each other
and in this box there's also two white
but something key to realize is that
there's no two striped boxes next to
each other if we look at say a we see
white next to each other
black far apart and striped far apart
okay so black was touching here but it's
not touching here let's keep that in
mind but black does touch here black
does touch here so we know that black is
allowed to touch each other white we
also know is allowed to touch each other
but if we look at striped everyone said
a stripe boxes do not touch each other
that's good that's interesting and I'm
thinking that's probably the rules so
now let me look at set B now before even
looking at set B I know that either
stripes are gonna touch each other or
black are gonna not touch each other or
whites are gonna not
at each other and that's because the
rule is always something opposite or
similar to say hey so before I even look
at said D I already know that's what
it's gonna be
let's look at that B we see black
touching each other which is the same as
say a so cool my rule has nothing to do
with black we see white not touching
each other which is interesting
okay cool white does not touch each
other in set B and we also see that
stripe does touch each other so like I
said when I use the pattern and say hey
you could already know what the pattern
is probably gonna be in set B so it's
quick to figure out so here we see Zebby
that striped can touch each other
whereas an a stripe cannot touch each
other and then being we also have white
not touching each other okay so there
you go this is a little bit more of a
difficult and actually took me quite
some time to figure out but yeah again
when you're going through these
questions when you're learning how to do
this the beginning just keep staring
keep testing until you come to the
conclusion yourself I cannot stress that
enough you want to keep thinking you
want to write things down you want to
make sure that you figure out the
pattern yourself that's the best way to
learn because once it clicks you're not
gonna forget next time you look at a
complicated pond like this you're gonna
immediately think oh are the colors
touching each other are the shapes
touching each other
orientation are they touching each other
you see the more questions you do the
more exposure you get and the easier it
is to find the pattern next time all
right let's move on to another one
okay have we come to these now okay cool
okay so these are the other kinds of
questions you'll encounter I'm sure you
guys already know about this I know
remember if they're called type 2 type 3
type 4 or whatever but the premise is
the important part so let's go through
them okay so this first one okay for
these questions where I ask you which
figure completes the series you want to
just look at one piece of the puzzle at
a time and see what that one piece does
and that's always the biggest clue it
can be so confusing to look at all this
together just look on one piece and see
what it does okay so let's start here on
the top left and look at this one black
square from the first picture it moves
one to the left then one down then one
right so we can very easily tell that
this square is moving in an
anti-clockwise pattern following the
hexagon okay the circle is also moving
anti-clockwise in the same way so the
next thing that we expect is a blank
square here and a circle over here so
for a black square in this corner so as
possible B is not possible C as possible
and D is not possible now we look at a
and C and we realize oh there's the
square in the correct place and there's
the circle in the correct place so we
realize that we might have missed
something so the squared is only shaded
black there's no much variation there if
we look at the circle we can see every
time it moves a position the black and
the white get inverted between the
inside and the outside of the box so on
the inside of the hexagon here it's
white then black then white then black
so now we're expecting white on the
inside so we look at a we see black on
the inside and that can't be right our
answer must be C all right so that's how
you do it but go one thing see how that
changes and you can figure out the
pattern okay so this one what do we see
we see not moving from one box to the
next you add one line each time okay
cool so in our last box we expect there
to be 1 2 3 4 5 6 plus 1 7 lines now we
can see this is gonna be wrong this
can't be correct this is wrong and this
can be correct now we want to look at
what else changes okay this black ball
at the top alternates between black
white black white so and also white
black white black white black so let's
see if this is white if this is black in
this picture then we know that in the
next picture this position needs to be
white okay
so a has white down here but it doesn't
have the line in the correct place B has
white down here with the line in the
correct place seeing has black here D
has black here so we know our answer is
B easy right okay so this question here
let's see this is to this cuz this is to
what okay so that's what got one shape
at a time and see what happens to it so
in the top left this zero gets rotated
45 degrees to the right and we see that
all these zeros do the same thing okay
cool this hour here flips from up to
down this flips from right to left this
goes from down to up and these big fat
arrows okay so I'm actually not sure
what's happening with the big thick
arrows but let's see
figure this out without it so we know
that the oval shape has to rotate 45
degrees so let's look at these ovals and
rotate them 45 degrees and we can see
that we can eliminate option C so we
have a B and D to work with we know that
these thin arrows they just become the
opposite if they pointed up they now
point down if they point right they now
point left so we're looking what we're
gonna look for in the new shape is left
up up up let's start there
so left up up up that works left up up
down a does not work left up up up C
works left up up this also works but we
had eliminated one of these due to
rotation so we're now so we're now left
with B or D okay let's look at the
remaining arrows so here we want a down
so B this points down and the this
points up so there we go
has to be B so I don't even know what's
happening with the big fat arrows and
you can still solve this pattern so like
I said before if you haven't figured out
the full pattern you're probably still
gonna figure it out with this with a
smaller set of patterns or you're at
least gonna get the majority of the
questions right so if we look at the top
left here we can see that this white
circle becomes blank this black circle
becomes a white square this recliner
white okay hold on my independent paper
for this so obviously I mean if you're
not doing this please use a pen and
paper to write down things so you don't
forget them and keep track of all the
rules so I'm just gonna say on the Left
white circle becomes black circle black
circle becomes white square black square
becomes white circle what am I missing
I'm missing white squares white squares
if we look here a white square becomes a
black square now obviously in the exam
you have pretty much no time to write
this down so look what I've written
super super simple
WC stands for a white circle B C stands
for black circle whatever I'm sure you
could
my key code here alright anyway the
point is just write things down really
quickly use like a code or something
that you're familiar with because you
don't waste any time so now let's look
at which one is correct so white circles
become black circles let's look at that
first so here a white circle I need to
have a black circle in the top left
which means I can immediately eliminate
B on C so I'm gonna write down BC xx all
right black circles become white squares
so this black circle here needs to
become a white square and either a or D
and in D it becomes a white circle not a
white square so D is wrong and we're
gonna choose a see how simple that is
just one shape at a time see what
happens to it and then you can really
quickly eliminate the answers because
like you can see just one shape being
wrong immediately eliminates that entire
shape so ya focus on one element at a
time figure out what's going on and
applied the rules okay guys and I think
that's about it I hope that I was able
to communicate well what I was thinking
about going through the questions onto
the camera it turned out to be a lot
harder than I thought it would be
and just remind her to keep that scans
list from one of my previous videos that
you can't count one keep that list like
printed or write it down somewhere and
just have it next to you so when you're
looking at a pattern if you've looked at
it for a really long time and you just
can't seem to figure out what it is
return to scans and see if there's an
option that you might have missed and as
you do these questions take the parts of
scans and add details to them for
example under color right if in one of
the shapes you happen to see that colors
next to each other are touching or
colors next to each other are not
touching that's something that you
should write down within scans within
color colors may or may not be able to
touch so the next time you see a pattern
with color that's something that you
immediately think of as something you
immediately look at and you might be
able to find it a lot faster anyway guys
that's it for me please let me know what
section you'd like me to do next or any
other videos that you might find useful
or that you're interested
and I'll try and get them out to you as
fast as possible keep sending me
questions on the student room keep
posting comments on these videos hope
you guys are having a good time
preparing for the UK account and
enjoying your summer don't forget to
leave a like on the video subscribe to
the channel if you want to see more
videos from me and that's it it's been
calm emetic i'm out peace